
Minimal Viable Project:
BUILD (Berkeley Unified in Literacy Development) reads: logging books read by kids, kids' ratings of books, and time spent reading

A form that takes in:
    student first/last name
    school
    grade
    book being read
    type of book (picture vs. chapter book)
    rating of book for that day
    cumulative avg, rating for the book
    time they spent reading
    current date
    reading sidekick name


A page that displays:
    student name
    their school & current grade
    previous books read
    a book cover for each book (using an API: Currently looking at Overdrive, Good Reads or Open Library. any recommendations would be welcome!)
    avg rating for each book
    a list of books they read during a specfic grade level
    how much time reading time they logged for the session
    sidekick or list of sidekicks

A database that stores:
    Student name
    Books read by students
    the student's average score for each book
    each day a student read
    how much time a student read during a session


Proposed technologies for project:
-Postgres database
-Python w/ Flask Framework
-Bootstrap for styling
-React.js for front-end functionality
-D3.js for data viz
-Heroku for deployment (but I also have a free Bluemix account?)
-would love other recommendations?


nice to have:
-a timer that keeps track of kids' reading time (using React.js?)
-badges that post to students' logs that reward them on the day they complete reading a book,
-badges that for when they complete 20, 40, or 60 min reading sprint (using Khan Academy's API for badges? or Font Awesome icons? or ?)
-kids can tweet short comments about books to Twitter

data visualizations
-show how much time a student has spent reading over time
-show how which books are popular at different schools
-show which books are popular for different grades across different schools
 

apply machine learning predictions to recommend a kids' next book
(we have an example of pearson correlation with movie ratings, is there a different
algorithm that you recommend?)

update google spreadsheet with the database information.

mobile capability
-update the cover photo with the reader's own drawing with a cellphone image.